README.md, before:

# Calendar-UI
This project demonstrates the design process from user data all the way to a working prototype. For this project, the goal is to create a prototype that improves user experience when create a calendar. Below are the various steps with images and short descriptions to highlight the most imporant takeaways. I worked with two other group members, Trenton Klasell and Braden Hicks.
## Step 1: Gathering Data
<img width="500" alt="Screenshot (155)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b431c3bb-1d20-4957-9b54-a420bae47865" />
<img width="500" alt="Matt User Journey Map-1_page-0001" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ea52df21-33ed-4729-b968-6af3f37bde87" />

* After Conducting Contextual inquiry interviews to gather user data, we constructed data models to organize and pinpoint the key aspects for my design. 
## Step 2: Creating low-fidelity prototypes
<img width="500" alt="LowFidelityPrototypeCalendar(3)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6744255d-c880-4a02-b7ef-0eaa65e692ba" />
<img width="500" alt="LowFidelity_NotepadPrototype" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6483fe3c-aa09-4bf3-bc3f-0f46eac0fa12" />
<img width="500" alt="Horizontal low-fi prototype-3_page-0001" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8daf0e70-5c2c-46ef-a6a8-a06024f27086" />

* After gathering and analyzing user data, we created low-fidelity prototypes to have the blueprint/foundation for our final design. These prototypes simplify the process of creating a final prototype as they provide an effective outline to follow. 
## Step 3: Creating a High-fidelity prototype
[Link to Figma Prototype](https://www.figma.com/design/2TcXg6EuimWIbtoujwrXOa/Calendar-UI?node-id=1-800&t=ngrJVuwt1Q7JifN2-0)

* After creating low-fidelity prototypes, we created a high-fidelity prototype using Figma to have an interactive UI that demonstrates user interaction with the final design. 
This prototype is not the final product, I am personally continuing with the project. 
## Step 4: Creating the final product 

* Using the high-fidelity prototype, I transitioned the figma project into a web application utilizing HTML/CSS/JS and React. I have personally worked on this project and will continue to implement and commit changes. The files and commits can be seen above.

## 🚀 Live Demo

**Try the app now**: [https://vharyani07.github.io/Calendar-UI/](https://vharyani07.github.io/Calendar-UI/)

The calendar is deployed on GitHub Pages and accessible from any device!

## Running the Application

### React Application (Current Version)

The calendar has been migrated to a modern React application with TypeScript and Tailwind CSS.

**Prerequisites:**
- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- npm

**Installation & Running:**

```bash
# Navigate to the React app directory
cd react

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at **http://localhost:5173/**

**Building for Production:**

```bash
npm run build
```

**Deploying to GitHub Pages:**

The app is automatically deployed to GitHub Pages. To update the live site:

```bash
npm run deploy
```

This will build the app and push it to the `gh-pages` branch.

**Features:**
- Month view with calendar grid
- Day view with 24-hour timeline
- Task management with priority ratings
- Event scheduling with time validation
- Per-day notes functionality
- All data persisted in localStorage

### Legacy Version

The original HTML/CSS/JS implementation is available in the `/legacy` folder for reference.

Commit message:

Update README: clarify development instructions

README.md, after:

# Calendar-UI
This project demonstrates the design process from user data all the way to a working prototype. For this project, the goal is to create a prototype that improves user experience when create a calendar. Below are the various steps with images and short descriptions to highlight the most imporant takeaways. I worked with two other group members, Trenton Klasell and Braden Hicks.
## Step 1: Gathering Data
<img width="500" alt="Screenshot (155)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b431c3bb-1d20-4957-9b54-a420bae47865" />
<img width="500" alt="Matt User Journey Map-1_page-0001" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ea52df21-33ed-4729-b968-6af3f37bde87" />

* After Conducting Contextual inquiry interviews to gather user data, we constructed data models to organize and pinpoint the key aspects for my design. 
## Step 2: Creating low-fidelity prototypes
<img width="500" alt="LowFidelityPrototypeCalendar(3)" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6744255d-c880-4a02-b7ef-0eaa65e692ba" />
<img width="500" alt="LowFidelity_NotepadPrototype" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6483fe3c-aa09-4bf3-bc3f-0f46eac0fa12" />
<img width="500" alt="Horizontal low-fi prototype-3_page-0001" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8daf0e70-5c2c-46ef-a6a8-a06024f27086" />

* After gathering and analyzing user data, we created low-fidelity prototypes to have the blueprint/foundation for our final design. These prototypes simplify the process of creating a final prototype as they provide an effective outline to follow. 
## Step 3: Creating a High-fidelity prototype
[Link to Figma Prototype](https://www.figma.com/design/2TcXg6EuimWIbtoujwrXOa/Calendar-UI?node-id=1-800&t=ngrJVuwt1Q7JifN2-0)

* After creating low-fidelity prototypes, we created a high-fidelity prototype using Figma to have an interactive UI that demonstrates user interaction with the final design. 
This prototype is not the final product, I am personally continuing with the project. 
## Step 4: Creating the final product 

* Using the high-fidelity prototype, I transitioned the figma project into a web application utilizing HTML/CSS/JS and React. I have personally worked on this project and will continue to implement and commit changes. The files and commits can be seen above.

## 🚀 Live Demo

**Try the app now**: [https://vharyani07.github.io/Calendar-UI/](https://vharyani07.github.io/Calendar-UI/)

The calendar is deployed on GitHub Pages and accessible from any device - no installation required!

## Running Locally (For Development)

Want to run it locally? Follow these steps:

### React Application (Current Version)

The calendar has been migrated to a modern React application with TypeScript and Tailwind CSS.

**Prerequisites:**
- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- npm

**Installation & Running:**

```bash
# Navigate to the React app directory
cd react

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at **http://localhost:5173/**

**Building for Production:**

```bash
npm run build
```

**Deploying to GitHub Pages:**

The app is automatically deployed to GitHub Pages. To update the live site:

```bash
npm run deploy
```

This will build the app and push it to the `gh-pages` branch.

**Features:**
- Month view with calendar grid
- Day view with 24-hour timeline
- Task management with priority ratings
- Event scheduling with time validation
- Per-day notes functionality
- All data persisted in localStorage

### Legacy Version

The original HTML/CSS/JS implementation is available in the `/legacy` folder for reference.
